 Congratulations to you Mr. Raghavan for that. Thanks so much for joining us. Over to you. Hi everybody. How are you? I am not hearing this at all. It's like a post lunch, energy downer or something. Let's hear it. Are you guys awake? All right. You better be because we have a superstar guest here. You heard the $41 million. I did hear honestly anything that she said after that. So we're going to ask for about $40 million from them by the end of this conversation. But let's get started. I want to introduce the week and Pratius. She's go founder who's not here. We wanted to start with a playing a video of what open happy does. I encourage all of you to go to the website. So I want that AI and check it out. But let me start by introducing the way. We're a good dear friend and he's very, very modest. One of the most modest guys that I know, but his personal journey. We're going to be now. You got a PhD from Honeymelon. You started and sold the company to magma and we can I move back to India from both in the valley. On the same day actually. And to be in India for the last 16 years. And what most people don't know is your junior Adha. He spent 13 years selflessly at Adha. Nobody would have heard of him. But who was a pioneering technology visionary behind. We all take for granted today. So please give it out. So honestly, when people when I think of selfless service, truly selfless service. I always think of the day. And since then he also was at AI for Bharat, which we're going to touch on with Pratius. His other co-founder Pratius had a PhD from ETH at Zurich. He was an IBM research, was a Microsoft research playing a key role. And a faculty at IH Madras. And at Bharat. So that's a little brief introduction about them. These guys are modest, modest engineers. So they don't too, they don't want. So forgive me for putting their on in this case. But let's jump right in. What the money funding? What even million bucks man? That's a lot of money. Right. Every entrepreneur here is saying, I held it right. These guys do. What did the investors see to write such a big chat? No, I think I think it's I think it's a trend of new trend of what's going on in India. I think that's the very first time I think investors have looked at you know. Let's try and build something deep tech out of the country. And let's try to figure out how to build something as a foundational technology. Because in that's really what's what's really exciting. You know, and I think that about you know, as as as I was mentioning for the past 15 years, I've been kind of working in kind of, you know, both the digital public infrastructure and kind of a nonprofit kind of things. And but when this whole thing of gendered away I came about, I you know, we said, okay, how can I actually make a difference in this space? And I said, maybe this is the opportunity to actually come out and and and really build something. You know, and the only way that we realize that you could do this actually in in the type sector. And I think that's the and then we went out there and we said we want to build something, which is a continuation, right? I mean, fundamentally the question is the reason of what we want to do at server may I, is we want to basically make gendered AI available and accessible to the people in the country and that's that's the intent and when we said that we want to do this, there was a resonance in the investment community. And I think it's a responsibility to really to show that that's something like this can be out of India. So we see that as as as as confidence and a responsibility. And I also hope it's a trend that that you know that there are many more people like like us who are backed because if you look at it, maybe it's a large number in a, you know, in the Indian context, but in the global context, I think there is just, there should be many, many more entrepreneurs who are backed to do things in India. I'm going to come back to the many more entrepreneurs. I'm obviously going to ask you about the Barbish's truth. So we're going to come back to the question. But again, $61 million. All of what you said, you know, $2 million, you know, that's a good amount of money for a startup, which you know, which is not yet built anything. What are you going to do with all this money? I can go. I can have a perfect solution for the problem. I think the last week I've got what's false, what's between you and how I get. No, but I know you first. Okay, I'll be landed in the country same day. I'm a part of the team. No, but but but honestly, I think the key thing in this is is to putting together an amazing key. And we actually have an amazing team, but believe that it is talent that will drive this kind of thing. And so it is it is to get talent. And of course, the other thing is compute. This is extremely expensive compute wise to actually do these kinds of things. And I think that those are the primary things that that you know, use this one. Okay. I'm computing in my own head as a entrepreneur talent. Okay, you have like 20 to 20. Well, how much are you paying these? Okay, well, you won't touch on that. But let's talk about what you guys actually built. What is open, how do you explain open, how many people here might not have no value? So I think open happy is so first of all, right? We come from I personally come from the open source system and also from the DPI system. So we believe that for this to work, we need a ecosystem to be successful. And as a result of that, one of the first things we did was, Hey, there are these open source large language models that exist. Right? I mean, everybody knows about the Lama family from Mehta. They also there are others like this. I'll be one bunch of open source, you know, large language models. And then we said, is there any way that take an existing open source model and teach it language skills? I mean, and that is really the, you know, what we decide what we said that can we do something like that? And is this a, you know, relatively through the way of actually, you know, making models, you know, work in diverse languages because the truth is still today. We need to look at the amount of data and knowledge is still English, dominates these things. And I think that how do you actually take and make it understand Indian language, understand Indian context and all of those things in actually a inefficient way? And therefore, this was an attempt to do that. And it's a open hearty is, you know, is currently based on the Lama, a seven billion model, but we've been releasing many more models in different languages and sizes and things like that as part of this series. And of course, you know, we will be building further models on those and doing other things to actually, and we also have end points that people can use. But it's not, it's definitely, you know, something that can, can, and use two things and that's the essence of what, so, so what does it mean to people in the audience here who are either doing their own startups or a business or, or developers? How should they look at me? Oh, sorry, sorry. No, I think, I think the way you look at it is that we are one of the important things that we are doing is we're not just building models. We are also going to be building a platform, a platform for developers where you can actually use a combination of various different kinds of models, which are from us, some, we'll console some, you know, to open source and actually to actually pull together and figure out how to deploy, you know, generated AI applications at scale and understand the value of their performance and that's something that we're planning to do. It is, and this platform is, you know, in the next couple of months, will be coming out there, we available to developers, but of course, those want to start with the open source things and act with that. Of course, please go ahead. That's, that's phenomenal. But how does it compare to open AI itself or Google? See, at least the things that we are doing now, right? I mean, one of the things that when we thought about building server, we said we want to build a full stack, which are the data AI company and different people. And our understanding of the stack is that we need to know how to train models from scratch. We need to know how to kind of figure out how to deploy models to solve real-world experiences. And we need to play in the ecosystem to make sure that we can actually deploy population scale applications. So, we were thinking about all of these things, but still the models we were talking about are, you know, fairly small models. They are very small models, right? The 7 to maybe up to 70 billion kind of range bit of work. While these models like open AI and, and we're all actually much bigger, right? But we want to, but we want to understand the technique, simply able to build that muscle to do all of the things, to make it available to people. So, now those models are, I mean, as I said, you know, I think that there is space for all of those things. And I think as when Streeter was talking about earlier in the day, we believe that these smaller models can do very, many, many kind of domain specific tasks, extremely well, probably even better than the larger models. And that is really one of the key areas. And so, therefore, the value of these kinds of things, right? We are not aiming in these muscle models to build any AI, right? That's not our goal. Our goal is to make things that work extremely well for domain specific use cases or, our intelligence accessibility to language and all of that. Obviously, all of this unique to India. What is unique about India? Like, what is, is anything special in our ecosystem that makes small models focused with Indian languages, better for most suitable problems? So, I think that's, I mean, there are quite a few things that are unique about India, right? The first thing is, I think that we are a voice first nations. Therefore, I think voice has to be the core to do with things. The other thing, of course, India is extremely, it's a cost-conscious country for a farmer from a cost perspective. Now, there, I would say that there are lots of interesting use cases where you can use openly AI and the cost structure works that when you're depending on your application. But when you want to scale things to a massive level and make it work, then you have to figure out how small ones work. So, that's something that is also specific to India. The third thing which is specific to India is really the success that India has had in building all this digital public infrastructure. When you add the AI layer on top of it, then you can actually get dramatic, you know, dramatic, I think, multiplicative, combinatorial effects based on doing things like that's a phenomenal point. Like, you know, it's like DPI to the power of AI in most of some ways. It's a part of other building, other, no better person than you. So, in summary, what I'm hearing is small models, specialized with trained with unique specific language data, suited for Indian problems at a compelling cost point. We'll be suited for us, we're not solving some world, art and art, sort of some complex problem. We're solving some basic problems specifically focused on voice and multiple languages. That is what you see as a future. Am I paraphrasing this correctly? No, yeah. So, I think that certainly, I mean voice and Indian languages are an important part of our strategy. But we will be building, you know, custom models to solve various other kinds of problems as well. Right? It's not just limited to, I think, in different domains, where the domains making building things based on unique data that enterprises have. That's what that's something that's also there. Fair enough. So, coming back to the elephant in the room, no fun intended with open Hathi. What about Babi Shattivalan and Kutri? What is your take on? I think it's great. I think it's wonderful, right? I mean, the fact that the technology AI is so important that we meet multiple people working on. The fact that there are other people thinking is actually validates that this is an important problem to be solved. And I think that we need everybody to come together and do that. So, I really welcome that. I think it's great. And I think that there will be different people who will have different takes as to how to solve this kind of problem. And hopefully, as a result of that, we had tied ecosystem benefits. I have one more question and then I want to talk about some of the predictions that you boldly made. So, Vick, I usually ask people about what do you think the future would be and everybody usually edges. I ask Vick, what do you think is going to happen by December 2024? What do you think sitting in this room one year later, we can expect? And he made three bold predictions. So, I want to talk about that before that I have one last question. What are the top three applications that you think are relevant for India? You would see the talk about medical, but with no very quick summary, what do you think your top three apps are for India for AI? So, I mean, I think that set things like the education and the care areas where I think that these can be leveraged. The whole idea of these kind of the DPI aspect of it is another major application where things can happen. And here I am talking about the specific one. And I think the whole idea which we were also talked about was the concept of software. And I think that and clearly we have a very large software industry and how to reimagine those things. It is not fixed. Fair enough. Are you guys ready for Vick Raghavan's bold predictions? Yes. No, I am not hearing any. It is like a big deal. It is like one of the smartest guys that I know. You want to make three predictions. You want to hear it. All right. So, I asked him, what do you think, you know, here later, what do you think we can expect? And he came up with three things and usually people give very blind answers when asked questions like this, because they don't want to be caught wrong. Not Vick. Vick is bold. So, he basically said three things and I want to list out the three things and ask him about it. So, number one, he says, I will prefer to talk about automated customer service than a real person because they give me a better answer. That is Vick Raghavan's prediction number one. So, number two is that when everybody is talking about a GPU shortage, Vick predicts the GPU gluttony. He thinks that will be too much GPU. So, you want a short and media software. And number three, which was extremely unexpected. He said some companies will suddenly die. Vick, these are not what I expected. So, we want to quickly talk about each of them. Why you just came up with this and then we'll throw the audience questions. So, I don't think I quite said it the way that Vala is. I'm not saying that. But it's interesting. But I think the first thing that he said is I think that and I don't think that this is I think there will come a time when you know in areas of customer service etc. When you want to do something very specific today, you know, when you call when you call some kind of a bot you actually end up. You mostly try to disconnect the ball or you know, you're extremely upset that you're talking to a bot. But I think that there will come a time and I'm pretty clear that later that you will actually get better responses from the bot than what the human representative that the average human representative that you could give. And I think that that's just a side to say that there will come a time where you know it's not that you need to talk to. But it's probably more likely to solve your intent than that when the human person. That's just something that I think that could happen. Definitely controversial. But we'll let it go. What about the GPU blood? No, I don't think that. So, I think that the fact that there is tremendous shortage right now, I think that shortage will be because that is how the cycles of things go. Right when when you know I think the fact that there was such a severe shortage last year, you know, basically cause a number of different players to ramp up in various kinds of forms. And I think that that will always go inside. But you may find out that there are many, many more interesting problems that people will be able to solve. I still remember, you know, we were at the at the at the Genie event in Bangalore and we were talking to people and we said, you know, how many people have access to, you know, four, eight hundred. So, the question that I asked and nobody in the room and these are all extremely enthusiastic. And nobody had access. And I think that thing is going to change. You will be able to get these kinds of things and people want to hack and do things will have access to things without, you know, having to write a. Amazing check. The lake is also semi-connected. Before you went into other. So, I would take this prediction very seriously. So, I know what I would. I would sell my envy. I would not do that. That's not what I said. I don't want to blame you. I would do that. But the third one is pretty strange. You know, companies are born companies dying. But you said some companies will suddenly die. What does that mean? So, I think see, I think the the interesting thing is and I think that it comes back to the fundamental feature of AI is a tool. And you have to use that. And you have to use that within your business process. Right. And how AI is and so and what's going to happen is that I think this is true with the with you know when somewhat set of in-depth of your people. They said that the people who leverage AI will be will will be more effective than those who don't leverage. And that will speak for organizations also organizations that leverage AI in fundamentally in their core business processes will be more effective than those who don't. Right. And I think that's the thing and you won't know the difference until one day it becomes to obvious and it will be too late. And I think that's the reason why everybody needs to think about what it means for your business. Because you will everything will be fine. Everything will be fine. And one day somebody it your either either your competitor your space or something brand new coming into your space will be imagining your business process completely. And at that stage you will find that it's you know it's a it's a very big very tall you know mountain to find and that's why I think it's important for both people and entities to think about how they will you know they will upgrade themselves or they will modify their first. That's a very false answer and everybody here running a business should really think about it because like will be same and then suddenly suddenly something will be. Then step change. I have a few more questions but I'm sure the audience has a lot of questions for you so how are we doing on time. Okay so that's okay a lot of questions so love to is that a mic that we can. Thank you. My name is Kartik I work for a IT service industry. So you're saying that you're working on. LLM sorry it's fine to you on the LLM on top of Lama my basic question fundamental question is we don't have a foundation model for India most of the models are basically. See English or those kind of example and Andrew was talking about. Do you know what I mean. So are you working on anything like that or you want to use mostly the existing models and not all. Good question. So I think we need to seek that is that if you look at and have actually a blog on this on our website I think one of the things that we actually build a. A customized to the night which actually fundamentally changes the cost of some of the generations in the ages and and I think that we're not just. We're actually we are leveraging the existing. But we are doing what's on this continual training it's actually but having said that you know I think that. When we have to figure out where is the data to train next to realize more from scratch and some of those things at things which will happen. Over time but I think that I think that yes I think that we will be doing various kinds of things but the interesting thing is that. If I want to change the accessibility problem within existing open source model how do I do that and that's the problem that we have that we think we have solved and. It's really well explained in the blog even I could understand. Hi I'm Frisha and I work for a fit. My question is like unlike China we never had a consumer facing application coming out from India and web one web to crypto and on. Why do you think it would be different this time in like AI because build the. BPI and other things will. Sub the same purpose but the great by what did in China or do you think like it because AI is a static sector no outside country can work in NASA projects maybe. All government content will go to them what is that is the mode here for. So I don't I think I think the question is I don't know the answer to these questions right I think that it's difficult to predict but I do believe and as an I'm beating that the combinatorial effect of being using Jenny I had a lot of. I think that the end is that people need to be able to use it and they will vote by things that are useful for them and if that doesn't happen you're right that I think that we have to figure out what is the mechanism of delivery. I mean how where do we do it in so sorry but we are out of time they will be outside so can I can I just take one last yeah thank you thank you I'm and I'm from high school good that I got a chance to ask you this question during lunch time they were a few of our education is so we were. Talking about and we were there was one some school and we are from the NBA institutions we were thinking of these present generations how do we get them into what you are doing. There is one thing that they have been regularly that the concentrations that they're working on artificial intelligence and getting into this getting them into their academics and making them a part of it is very important. Including the trainers who trained them making them future ready what you are doing is amazing and the speed that which is growing is calling for a lot of training that needs to be done. Can you from your angle throw some light on how we could make them future ready how these people who are who are management graduates and from schools who are coming out how do we get into this part of technology that you spoke about. Also this is this is really a challenge because I think everyone will need to understand at some level what this technology does and I think that we have to rethink how we get everyone into this and that this and this kind of education has to get many different levels right there are from a core set of having people who are extremely good at some and there you don't need as many but then there are these vast numbers of people who can actually leverage this kind of education. So by the way the most important thing about maybe that's part of what makes an LLM interesting is that how you use it your mileage by that and to understand how to actually leverage this in a interesting way is something that you have to quite teach many many people and because asking the things in the right way and having the right kind of applications will make it interesting. Thank you very much we very good luck to serve on my good luck to India. It's going to be a lot of right. Thanks. Thanks. Thank you Mr. Raghavan and